| **[Entity]**  **Information Technology Standard**   | **No:**                    |
|-----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| **IT Standard**  :  **Security Logging**            | **Updated:**               |
|                                                     | **Issued By:**  **Owner:** |

## 1.0 Purpose and Benefits

Logs record data so that systems and networks can be appropriately monitored to maintain use for authorized purposes and an awareness of the operating environment, including detecting indications of security problems.

This standard defines requirements for security log generation, management, storage, disposal, access, and use. Security logs are generated by many sources, including security software, such as antivirus software, firewalls, and intrusion detection and prevention systems; operating systems on servers, workstations, and networking equipment; databases and applications.

## 2.0 Authority

*[Authority Needed]*

## 3.0 Scope

[Scope Needed]

## 4.0 Information Statement

Logs must be generated in information technology (IT) systems and networks.  Because of the nature of the data contained in security logs (e.g., passwords, e-mail content), they are considered personally identifying information (PII) and must be protected with the controls for a confidentiality and integrity of high.

#### 1 Initial Log Generation

1. All security events ( [Appendix A](.) ) must be logged and must be set to capture significant levels of detail to indicate activity.

#### 2 Log Administration

#### 3 Log Consolidation

#### 4 Log Storage and Disposal

#### 5 Log Access and Use

## 5.0 Compliance

This standard shall take effect upon publication. Compliance is expected with all enterprise policies and standards.  Entities may amend its policies and standards at any time; compliance with amended policies and standards is expected.

If compliance with this standard is not feasible or technically possible, or if deviation from this policy is necessary to support a business function, entities shall request an exception through the Chief Information Security Officer’s exception process.

## 6.0 Definitions of Key Terms

| **Term**   | Definition   |
|------------|--------------|
|            |              |

## 7.0 Contact Information

Submit all inquiries and requests for future enhancements to the policy owner at:

**[Entity Address]**

## 8.0 Revision History

This standard shall be subject to periodic review to ensure relevancy.

| **Date**   | **Description of Change**   | **Reviewer**   |
|------------|-----------------------------|----------------|
|            |                             |                |

## 9.0 Related Documents

NIST Special Publication 800-92, Guide to Computer Security Log Management

Security events that must be logged for all systems include but are not limited to:

Successful and unsuccessful authentication events to include but not limited to:

- system logon/logoff;
- account or user-ID;
- change of password;
- the type of event;
- an indication of success or failure of event;
- the date and time of event; and

Unsuccessful resource access events will be logged to include at minimum:

- account or user-ID;
- the type of event;
- an indication of the event;
- the date and time of event;
- the resource; and

Successful and unsuccessful privileged operations including but not limited to:

- use of system privileged accounts;
- system starts and stops;
- hardware attachments and detachments;
- system and network management alerts and errors messages; and

Successful and unsuccessful access to log files to include but not limited to:

- account or user-ID;
- the type of event;
- an indication of success or failure of event;
- the date and time of event; and

Most web servers offer the option to store log files in either the common log format or an extended log format. The extended log format records more information than the common log file format. When technically feasible web servers must use extended log format. The extended log format adds valuable logging information to your log file so you can determine where messages are coming from, who is sending the message and adds information to the log file that would be necessary to trace an attack.

For systems identified as critical based on a risk assessment or systems that have not yet been classified, in addition to the above, successful resource access events will be logged to include at a minimum:

- account or user-ID;
- the type of event;
- an indication of the event;
- the date and time of event;
- the resource; and